[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I was a mom and married,
and I had two children,
and it was 1987.
My youngest daughter
had just been born,
and she was just a month old
when I injured my back lifting
something too heavy.
So about four months passed
with the doctors examining me,
and the first doctor
that I saw said
that I wouldn't walk again.
And I went to a
neurosurgeon after that,
and he looked at all the tests
that had been done on me,
and he said that he
could fix the problem.
I checked into the hospital
the day before the surgery,
and it was December,
1987 when this occurred.
They were going to
conduct a myelogram, which
is a test where they inject
iodine dye into the back
of your neck, in
my case, and they
have laying on an X-ray table.
And they then tip
the X-ray table
so that the dye will flow
down your spinal cord
to determine whether
the spinal cord was
damaged when the disc blew
out of the lower back area.
So they proceeded to
start with the testing,
and they asked me to
hold really still,
because they said once they
inject the dye into my neck,
if I moved at all,
that I would suffer
from really bad headaches for
quite a few months afterwards.
So I was laying very
still on the table,
and the neurosurgeon and
the orthopedic surgeon
that were going to be doing
the surgery the next morning
were in the room when this
test was going to be done.
It was lucky that
they were there,
because the person who had
his finger on the X-ray table
was pushing the wrong button.
The X-ray table
tipped the wrong way,
which caused my head to
be lowered below my feet,
and that caused the
dye that they had just
injected in the back of my neck
to flow into my brain area.
And it very quickly caused
me to lose consciousness.
And when I lost consciousness,
I went up on the ceiling.
As I looked down
at my body and saw
the top of the heads of
everybody in the room,
I wasn't startled or upset
or frantic or panicked.
It was a very calm, it was a
very wrapped in love feeling up
there, like you were
in the warm blanket,
and everything was fine.
And I looked down at my
body on the X-ray table,
and I could hear the X-ray
technician next to me
calling "code blue."
I actually didn't know
what "code blue" meant,
but I said, huh, if I'm
up here on the ceiling,
and my body's down there,
and he's calling frantically,
"code blue," I
think I just died.
So there wasn't any
alarm or worry or panic.
It felt very comfortable.
In the next second, when
I saw that everything
was going into very high speed
resuscitation efforts down
below, it seemed really
obnoxious, actually,
with everybody kind of
yelling at each other
and moving very quickly.
And there was a presence
next to me on the ceiling,
and that presence felt huge,
loving, and accepting of me.
And the feeling that I
felt with that presence
felt as though I had been
part of that presence,
and it had been part
of me for eternity.
It was unbelievable to feel
that love and that acceptance
and that degree of
intensity that I
had in those moments with
this presence next to me.
And I began talking to
the presence and saying,
I really want to go back.
I want to go back for my
five-month-old daughter.
And I want to go back for
my eight-year-old son.
If I leave them, if I leave
their lives in this way,
if I leave them at
this time, then they
will not grow up to be the
human beings that they could be
if I was contributing to them.
And I really want to go
back to be with them.
Please, could I please
re-enter this life?
On top of that, I also knew,
up there on the ceiling,
what my plan was for my
life, what my purpose was,
and I said to the being, I
haven't completed my purpose.
And I really want to
go back into my life
to be able to do that, to
do what I had planned to do.
Down below, they were
bringing in an oxygen cart,
and they put an oxygen
mask on my face.
And this woman did that.
And then there was a woman
that was calling at a desk that
was in the corner of the room.
There was a phone
over there, and she
was calling for the defib
unit to be brought in,
defibrillation, to
restart my heart.
In the midst of watching
everything unfolding
and the CPR and
the resuscitation,
there was this man that came
in, and he had a small box
that he placed on a shelf
next to the X-ray table.
As I was talking to this
being, I was watching this man.
And I didn't actually
know what he was doing.
I moved from-- instantaneously,
from the ceiling to right
in front of the box.
And he flicked a little
lever on the side of the box,
and it turned on a green
light inside the box,
and it made the box start
making a monotone sound.
And the little green light
traveled across the screen
in a straight line.
All of a sudden, I
realized, oh, oh, this
is supposed to be
going like this.
And it was not registering
that I had any heart rate.
And when I realized it
was a heart monitor,
then I was instantaneously moved
back up on the ceiling again,
and then had the view down
of my body on the X-ray table
and above everyone,
looking down at their heads
and the whole spread
out of the room.
So that was very interesting.
So I saw my own flat line,
and what the doctor did,
the orthopedic surgeon, he
stepped forward two steps.
He said, stand clear, to the
people who were doing the CPR
and were around the head of
the table, and they backed off.
And he just took his
fist, and he arched it
from over his head--
from behind his
back, and he just
pounded the center of my chest.
I watched that from
up above, and I
watched my body
react to that blow,
but, of course, it did
not restart my heart.
And he then arched
his arm back again
and struck my chest
a second time.
And when he struck my chest, my
eyes simply shot from up above,
and I blinked opened my eyes,
and I was looking straight
into his face.
He stepped backwards, and
the people around the table
were stepping back
in to stabilize me.
And I started talking
into the oxygen mask.
I was very alarmed,
because I couldn't explain
what had just happened to me.
And I was asking that question.
What just happened?
The nurse leaned over me, and
she said, please don't talk.
We need to stabilize you.
So I had to wait for
about 20 minutes,
until they took the
oxygen mask off.
And I then started blurting
out, what just happened?
I was up on the ceiling.
I could see everything.
I could see what we were doing.
And the neurosurgeon, he
ended up saying, oh, brother,
really sarcastically.
And that caused me to
want to be believed.
So I said, no, I actually
was on the ceiling,
and I could see everything.
And she's the person who
brought in the oxygen cart
and connected it up to my
face, and that man brought
in the heart monitor, and I
actually watched it flatlining.
Then you said this to him,
and he said that to you,
and I explained the
conversation that the two
doctors had been
having just before
they did the precordial thump.
You said, stand clear.
You stepped two steps forward,
and you struck me in my chest,
but it didn't work
the first time.
And the second time that you
struck me, then I came back.
I was up on the ceiling.
And the neurosurgeon
had, by this time,
since it had taken me so long
to kind of tell all that,
had turned white, and he
just looked with this, like,
look of shock.
And then he just
said, I'm not going
to stand here and
listen to this.
And he stormed out of the room.
But the rest of the people,
all the support staff
and the orthopedic surgeon,
they stayed in the room.
And the orthopedic surgeon
continued to talk to me
and say, what did you
feel, and how did you feel?
And he asked me questions,
and I answered them,
and everybody listened.
And then after they
stabilized me further,
they put me on a gurney,
and they sent me up
to a private room.
And from that point on, I had
the surgery the next morning,
and every single person
that I interacted with that
came into my room to check my
vitals, the doctors, everyone,
I asked them what happened
during that myelogram.
What was that that happened?
I got a lot of different
variables on what they said,
but most everybody
wouldn't talk about it.
I mean, everybody didn't
talk about it, but they said,
I don't know what
you're talking about,
or I don't see anything
on the records about this.
And it really closed me down
as to what had happened.
And so when they did the
surgery the next day,
my husband came to visit after
the surgery with my children.
And I told him what
happened the night before,
and he shut me down the rest
of the way by saying, oh,
that couldn't have happened.
You probably hallucinated it.
So when he said that
to me, my feeling was,
I didn't want
anybody in the world
to think I was hallucinating.
That, to me, was
a real negative,
and I just decided not
to tell anybody else.
So I was released
from the hospital
about three days
after the surgery,
and I never actually spoke about
that near-death experience,
didn't even know it was
called a near-death experience
at the time, had never
heard of Raymond Moody, who
wrote the book, "Life
After Life," in 1975.
I had no idea that anyone else
had ever had one of these.
And so my life continued on, and
one of the things that changed,
though, was the fact that
while I was up on the ceiling
and I was telling that being
that I wanted to go back,
the very last thing was
that the being spoke to me.
And the being said,
if you go back,
you will still be
in your marriage.
What will you do about that?
I had someone who
was abusive and who
was very controlling, was
really making my children's
lives and my life
very difficult.
And I had been trying to
give the benefit of the doubt
in a lot of
situations and trying
to believe that he would
make changes to his life,
if I just continued
to contribute
towards changing the way
that he looked at things.
But it wasn't working,
and I knew that.
And so in that moment,
when I was asked that,
it kind of stopped me dead
in my tracks, basically.
So what I said to the being
was, if you allow me to go back,
then I promise that I
will become brave enough,
strong enough to leave him.
And right when I
said that, that's
when the doctor struck my
chest that second time.
It took me three years
to move in that direction
very slowly towards
leaving my husband,
and I did do that when my
daughter was three years old.
It was a very
difficult time for me,
and I had been very
scared to do that,
but that near-death
experience and what
happened at the end
of that discussion
with me talking
one-sidedly to that being,
and then them finally
saying to me, what are you
going to do with your life,
that was really powerful for me.
And it gave me, I
think, the strength
to move out of a very
traumatic marriage
that I would have floundered
in and was floundering in.
And it was a very
difficult time for me.
So that started a whole
new chapter in my life of--
a very happy chapter
of my life that
was a really great
replacement for what
I had been living through.
And about 12 or so years
later, after the NDE
when my daughter
was about 12, I was
at a gymnastics practice
for her at the university
where I worked at.
And a friend of mine
was sitting next to me,
and she was explaining to
me that her mom was dying.
And I was feeling sad
for her, because she
was very impacted by the fact
that her mom's last weeks were
happening right at that time.
And something inside me--
I hadn't talked about
my near-death experience
for all these years
after my husband
said it was a hallucination.
I never spoke to
anybody about it.
I never researched it.
I never tried to
find out what it was.
I didn't know the term,
"near-death experience."
And this woman just kind
of brought it out of me,
and I decided that I needed to
tell her about it, because I
thought that it would help
her in how she was looking
at her mom's impending death.
She was a nurse at
the local hospital,
and so I recounted
what had happened
to me during my
near-death experience.
And she was in awe,
and she said, Barbara,
I know you're
telling me the truth.
And I said, how
could you know that?
I never ever told
anybody this story,
and how could you know that
I'm telling you the truth?
And she said,
because what you're
telling me is how they
would resuscitate you.
And I know that,
because that's the area
that I work in at the hospital.
So what you're telling me
that they did with the fist
on the chest is called
a precordial thump.
That's where I
learned the term from.
And she told me
all about it, how
the doctors weren't
able to do that,
unless they'd seen me die.
So she's the one who
validated it for me.
And probably within
the next few years
after that, I started
looking online,
because by then, the internet
had come into existence
for the common man.
I had access, and so I
started investigating,
And I found out it was called
a near-death experience.
And I found out details
about near-death experiences.
I ended up deciding to write
up my near-death experience,
and I decided to
submit it to a website
called the Near-Death
Experience Research Foundation,
which is run by
Dr. Jeffrey Long.
What ended up happening
was that Jeffrey Long
invited me to go to
a conference that
was going to be happening in
San Diego, California, in 2009.
I thought, oh, gosh,
I'm going to be
able to meet people who research
near-death experiences and also
other experiencers.
I'll be able to actually
talk to other people who
have had this happen.
I really want to go.
And the very first
night that I was there,
I was a little bit
scared, because these
were all people I felt
that were researchers,
and they knew a lot
about the subject,
and I still felt like a newbie.
So when I met Dr. Long, and
I ended up chatting with him,
there was a group of people
that gathered around him.
And they were obviously
researchers and people
within the IANDS organization.
It was the International
Association
for Near-Death Studies.
That was the name
of the conference.
And so as I stood there and
listened to his conversations,
they were talking about what
the conference subject was
that year, which
was after effects
that near-death
experiencers have.
And there are
common after effects
that they had been
researching, and they
were talking about them.
So as I listened, I was
just really disconcerted,
because I felt that the after
effects that they were naming
were not after
effects that happened
after my near-death experience.
I was alarmed, because it was
like they were naming things
that were resonating for me
all the way back to my earliest
childhood memories.
So after they finished
talking in kind of a group
conversation, people
turned to each other
and were just kind
of conversing.
And this woman was
standing next to me.
I turned to her, and I said,
I just don't understand.
If the after effects are
what you're saying they are,
why would I have them all the
way back to my early childhood,
not just after I had my
near-death experience?
I didn't know her name,
and it was PMH Atwater,
and she's written about 16 books
about near-death experiences.
And she took her hands, and
she was so calm and comforting,
and she said, my dear, I
think that you should talk
with your family,
because if you've had the
after effects that we were
just talking about all the way
back to your early
childhood, there's
a great likelihood that you
had another experience when
you were young.
Well, at the time, I have to
admit that I thought, oh, wow.
That's wacky.
There's no way that I had a
near-death experience when
I was young.
Wouldn't my parents
or my siblings,
my older siblings at least,
have told me about that?
I thought, my parents are
dead, and I can't ask my mom
what that might be about.
So I went--
I was going up to
Oregon to visit
my older brother about a
month after the conference.
I had never told
any of my family
about my near-death experience.
I said, hey, so I'm doing a
background medical history
on myself all the
way back to my birth.
And I remember when
I did X, Y, and Z--
hurting my arm, hurting
my leg, breaking my ankle,
whatever my early
childhood memories
were of medical issues.
And I said to him, kind of
this open-ended question--
do you remember anything
else that I need
to put on my medical record?
We had dinner.
We were having a great
time with my husband
and my family and his family.
And at the very end of
the dinner, he came to me,
and he kind of
came really close,
and he said, Barb,
there's something
I need to apologize to you for.
I should have told you
something years ago,
and every time I ever
thought about telling you,
it just wasn't the right time.
When you were 18
months old, you died.
I just couldn't believe
that he said that.
And my husband was
just astonished, too.
And I said, what do you mean?
And he said, well, when
you were 18 months old,
you got a very high fever,
and you were really sick.
He said, I don't
remember what you had.
He said, I was 12.
My mom was pregnant with our
youngest child, their youngest
child, which is
my little sister.
He said, what happened was that
I was very ill with a fever,
and I went into convulsions,
and I stopped breathing.
The fire department
told my father
to tell my mom to put
me into a tepid bath,
so draw the water with
just not hot or cold,
and submerse me up to
my neck in that water,
and then to slowly add ice cubes
to the water to slowly lower
my body temperature.
They were sending
the ambulance over,
but they wanted her
to do this first
before the ambulance got there.
So my mom was in the bathroom,
and unfortunately, in 1958, we
just had one tray of ice cubes.
So that was brought
from the freezer,
but my mom then sent
my two brothers, the 10
and the 12-year-old, off
to the neighbors' houses
to gather ice from
the neighbors,
and emergency-- run,
run, go get this ice.
When he came back, he
stood in the doorway,
handed my mom the ice, and stood
in the doorway of the bathroom,
and he said, he looked at me,
and my mom was sobbing over me.
And he said, you
were soft purple.
All of a sudden, my mom had been
adding the ice to the water,
and all of a sudden,
he said I came alive
again by arching my back
and taking in a deep breath.
And then he said I turned
bright red immediately
when I did that, and he
said I started crying.
And the ambulance tech people
came into the bathroom.
They stabilized me,
wrapped me up, and then
took me off into the ambulance.
So my mom and dad are calling
for the nanny to come upstairs,
and my sister came
running up the stairs
and said, why did Barbie
have a temper tantrum?
And my mom was leaving out
the door with my father,
had grabbed her
purse and was going
to follow the ambulance
to the hospital.
And she stopped and
said, why would you
say that Barbie was
having a temper tantrum?
And my mom was upset
by what my sister said.
And she said, well, that's
what Mrs. Oates said
to me, that Barbie was upstairs
having a temper tantrum.
So my parents rushed off to
the hospital, and I came home,
my brother thinks, four
or five days later.
So I have both my brother's
and my sister's memories
of the incident.
And so I-- and all
of the after effects
were very apparent
through my early childhood
and were rather
upsetting to my mom
at times, because one of
the major after effects
is intuition.
And what would happen
would be things
like my mom holding my hand,
and I'm five years old,
and we're standing
on a street corner.
And I'm in downtown Salem,
Oregon, where I was raised,
and all of a sudden,
I'm hiding my face.
And my mom says,
what are you doing?
Why are you acting like that?
I said to her, there's
going to be two cars that
are going to crash together.
And right after I
said that to her,
two cars crashed in
the intersection right
in front of us.
And my mom, alarmed and
upset by just me having
said that just
before it happened,
kind of grabbed me and
said, don't tell anyone
that you can do that.
Don't tell anyone that
you're able to do that.
And I heard that
a lot from my mom,
actually, because there were
a lot of variety of things
that I would do that
were upsetting to her.
And I don't think
she understood,
and I don't think there was much
information about those types
of activities.
And I think she thought
it was negative,
and she told me not to do
it and not to talk about it.
So the many incidents
that occurred
happened even up through junior
high age and my high school
age.
There were incidents where
my friends would actually
question me as to how I
could have possibly known
that something was
going to happen.
It alarmed them, and,
in fact, in high school,
I had three or four friends that
I had an incident occur right
in front of them, where I told
them what was going to happen,
and it happened.
And they felt that
it was something
like I was a witch or
something, and they
were really upset by it.
And I didn't know how
to explain it either,
and I just really
got upset with them
and said they couldn't
call me a witch.
That wasn't acceptable,
and I wouldn't allow that.
So many years and many
intuition moments have passed,
and I recognize now
that it's a benefit
that I have the
intuition, and I actually
welcome it and enjoy it.
And I use it really well.
But I'm not a medium.
I don't have people pay me
for it or anything like that.
I just-- it's just
beneficial for my life
when I get messages that happen
that save my life sometimes
and other incidents that
occur where it helps me
with what I'm doing.
When my grandfather died,
it was my father's father.
My mom received
the telephone call,
and I came running from my
room, hearing my mom's sobs.
She said that my
grandfather had died.
So the reaction that my older
sister and my younger sister
had was to burst into tears.
And I was about nine
years old, and I
remember thinking this
happy, absolute effervescence
came into my soul
at that moment.
I thought, oh, boy,
he gets to go home.
And my mom said, why
aren't you crying?
Didn't you love grandpa?
And I realized, in
that moment, that I
had behaved in a different
way than my siblings.
And I then said, yes, I loved
grandpa, and I started crying.
I forced myself to cry, but
that wasn't my natural reaction
to it.
And that made me feel
weird at the time,
because I didn't
understand that at all.
In high school, I had
a very good friend
who was very ill
with kidney issues.
And he ended up dying at
age 21, and we had a lot
of conversations about death.
I talked with him a lot about
that, because he knew he was--
there was a limit to his life,
because his kidneys were dying.
And we had a lot of
conversations about that.
And I think I was
the only person
that he felt comfortable with
talking about that, and even
as a high school person and
in my early college years,
there was a difference
in what I understood
and what I could draw from, even
though no one had contributed
to that.
I didn't go to church.
I didn't have
parents that talked
about that type of stuff.
There was nothing being
inserted into my life.
So when I realized that I
had the near-death experience
at age 31, I still didn't know
about the near-death experience
I had when I was young.
But it really changed
my viewpoint on death,
and it really allowed me
to see that if I continued
past the point of
my body's death,
if I was up on the
ceiling, if I--
who I was, all of me, who I am,
all of my thoughts and feelings
were up on the ceiling, then
when I looked down at my body,
it was no different than looking
at a wetsuit I had just shed.
Who I was was up on the ceiling.
So when other people died in
my life, as people passed,
I realized that they continued
beyond the point of death.
And it really lessened my grief.
Yes, I would miss them.
I would miss their time in
my life and my interactions
with them.
But I also felt as
though, even though they
were gone, that I still had
a relationship with them--
not that I could
hear them or see them
or anything like
that, but that I
felt that their
consciousness still existed
and that if I sent them
love and told them I
still thought of them and that
I saw a particular thing that
reminded me of them, that
they would know that.
And they would know that
I was sending my love
across the veil to them.
So it's been a very
different life,
understanding that from
pretty much in my early 30s
and beyond that,
I actually believe
that I had pieces of
that understanding
all through my early
childhood, because that's
why I reacted the way that I
did when my grandfather died.
So for me, it's a huge gift.
It is an amazing gift to
know that death doesn't
hold anything over me, that
when people pass away, that they
still continue to exist.
Their consciousness
survives death
and that I will, again, see
them when I end this life,
whenever this particular
life goes and ends,
that I'll then be in
that level with them.
The other side is what I call
it, and I'll see them again.
And they're part of the
greater consciousness,
and I don't know the
whole idea of everything
behind all of that.
I'm still learning as I go
along, what I want to believe
and what I feel
resonates with me.
But I do know that I
don't feel that death
has any hold on any of us.
I believe we just
shed those bodies.
It changes the way you
look at people, too.
It changes the way
that you accept people,
and it changes the way
that you view the world,
because if you view each
person, instead of their body
being who they are, if you view
them as their soul instead,
then you overlook
height differences,
weight differences,
color, religion, anything.
It totally changes the
outlook of each person
is just another soul.
And when you look
beyond the exterior,
and you look for
who they are, it's
just-- it's way more
beautiful to find
who they are inside
rather than just seeing
the outside of the person
and judging on that.
So that's been a
lifelong thing that I've
been practicing and working
at to get better at.
And it's really improved
my life amazingly
to have that viewpoint.
The first time that
I went to a medium
was because a friend of
mine at the university
had a person that
she knew that was--
that she had gone
to that she felt
was just a pretty
amazing person.
So this friend of mine said,
you should really try this.
You should really go.
And I'd never had anybody that
I knew that had gone to one,
and I'd never gone.
So my friend encouraged me, and
I decided to go ahead and go.
And the minute that she saw me--
I didn't know her at all.
I'd never met her--
she proceeded to
give me a reading.
And one of the
things she said was,
you're going to have
your own business.
You're going to create
I see it being very successful.
And at the time, I was
working at the university,
and I thought, I'll never
leave the university.
Are you kidding?
This is the best
job I've ever had.
I love it, and my
husband works there,
and we're so much a
part of the university.
There's no way
that I would leave.
So some years passed,
probably about six.
I was in my living
room one morning,
and I ended up hearing
a voice and feeling
a grip on the top of my head.
And I heard this
voice that said,
you will have a scrapbook store.
It was this big, deep voice.
And I was totally alarmed, and
I didn't know what to think.
And I was alone in
the living room.
It was early in the morning.
I had just woken my son up.
And I looked up at the ceiling.
I said, I don't know
what you're talking
to me for about a
scrapbook store,
because I don't
scrapbook, and I don't
know what you're talking about.
And I don't want to do that.
And do you have the
wrong house or something?
And I kind of made a joke out of
it, and nothing else happened.
So I went running
through the house,
and I went to my
husband, and he knows
I have really strong intuition.
He's watched it a million times
happen and all sorts of things.
And so I said,
this just happened,
and I just heard this voice.
And I just had this
feeling and this grip
on the top of my
head, and I heard
that I was supposed to
start a scrapbook store.
And my husband looked
at me and said,
well, I think that if you
heard that big of a message,
that you should
consider what it's
going to take to create that.
And I looked at my husband.
I said, what are
you talking about?
I'm not going to start
a scrapbook store.
I work at the university.
I'm staying there.
I spent the entire
morning that morning
just talking to the other
side in my head saying,
you know, I don't know why you
were talking to me about that.
I don't get it.
I got to the downtown
area of Santa Barbara
after lunch that day,
and I was driving home.
Another voice in
the car said, you
need to stop and ask
about a business loan.
And it was a really
businesslike man's voice.
And I questioned, and I
said, who are you people?
Why are you talking
to me about this?
And so my bank was only one
block further than that.
I ended up deciding
to pull into the bank,
and I kind of talked
to the other side
and said, look, if this
is what you want me to do,
I'm willing to do it.
But I don't see the point of it.
And I'm going to
go into the bank,
and I'll ask about a business
loan, but I really don't--
I really don't know
why I'm doing this.
And I went into the bank, and
I sat before a banking officer.
And I told him, so I'm
interested in opening up
a scrapbook store.
And he said, how much
do you want to borrow?
The absurdity of what
I was doing kind of
struck me as funny at
that moment, and I said,
I don't know.
How much do you think
it's going to take
to start a scrapbook store?
His face reflected
that he thought
I was just wasting
his time, and I said,
I'm really sorry that
I've come to talk to you.
And I realize I've
jumped the gun,
and I should probably approach
the bank at a later time.
And thank you so
much for your time,
and I just wanted
to get out of there.
As I was walking through the
bank, the voice from the car
said, now, wait a minute.
You can't give up that easily.
You need to go back
and ask someone else.
And in the middle of the
bank, I said to the voice
that I could hear in my head,
well, if I can hear you,
then you can probably
hear my thoughts,
and you're not making
this easy for me.
You need to show me who
it is I need to talk to.
So what ended up happening
was as I was walking out
of the bank towards my
car, this man looked at me,
and he raised his hand
up, and he waved to me,
and he smiled at me, and
I'd never seen him before.
And I said, I came today
to talk about a loan,
but I realize I've
jumped the gun,
and I actually
need to figure out
how to create a business plan.
And the other man
that I talked to
said that I needed to
do a business plan.
So he ended up talking to
me for about 10 minutes
about what a business plan was.
And then he said, can you
hold on for just a moment?
And I didn't know why.
And he went two cubicles down.
They were glass-walled cubicles.
He was talking with a woman.
They were looking
at the computer,
and when he came back about
four minutes later, he said,
Mrs. Bartolome, you've been
approved for a $250,000 loan
to start your scrapbook store.
Do you and your husband want
to come in tomorrow and sign
paperwork for that?
Well, you can imagine that
that was a pretty big shock,
because I hadn't even wanted
to really do the store.
And to be just told like that,
but now you've got the money,
and you're going to do
it, it was pretty amazing.
I actually built the
store in three months,
and it was called Santa
Barbara Scrapbooks,
and it was in Santa Barbara,
California where I live.
And it ended up being
a very popular place,
and I had it for six
years before the 2008
crunch with the recession really
took the wind out of its sails.
And I decided that it
was important for me
to move on to do something else.
And three months after
I opened the store,
I was named Businesswoman of
the Year for Santa Barbara.
And that's why-- part
of the reason why
I didn't want to talk about
my near-death experience,
because it seemed really scary
to be named Businesswoman
of the Year for this
beautiful community,
and then turn around
a few years later
and end up being told
that I need to talk
about my near-death
experience and that I need
to open an IANDS
group in Santa Barbara
and have this possibility of
having all of these people
see me as someone
different than what
I had been when I was named
Businesswoman of the Year.
It was a big, scary thing
to do, but for me, it
was very powerful, because it's
the truth of what I'm saying.
It's the total truth.
I couldn't make this stuff up.
It was such a
life-changing event,
and it all unfolded
in such an amazing way
from that medium
that spoke to me.
I ended up finding the tape
that she had done years later
after I'd started my store.
I think probably two or three
years into having my store,
I happened to come
across the tape
that she had given me of
that, and I thought, well,
I should listen to this.
And that's when I was in
shock, and I said, oh, my gosh.
I showed it to my husband
and had him listen to it.
And I said, she predicted I was
going to have my own business.
She said that I was going
to have my own business,
and I totally
didn't believe her.
And I discredited it
immediately and thought,
that couldn't possibly be.
So I really believe that if
a medium has the capacity
to talk to the
other side, I think
there could be people that maybe
don't have the capacity that
are pretending that
they are mediums,
and then I think there's an
amazing group of people that
do decide that this is
going to be their life,
and they are going to
give messages to people
and help them.
I know that I get talked
to from the other side, so
why wouldn't anybody else that
are doing that for their work
be able to open up
that communication
from the other side and hear
from either their spirit
guides or God or whoever
it is they think is there?
Someone's there,
because, obviously, I've
been hearing it, too.
So for me, it's an
amazing experience,
and I don't go to
mediums regularly.
And I do have a lot of
friends that are mediums now,
because a lot of mediums
are near-death experiencers.
And Terry Yoder is one of them,
and he's a good friend now.
And so I believe that
there's this opening that
occurs when someone has a
near-death experience that
allows them to have this
one foot in one side and one
foot in the other side capacity
of hearing from the other side
and giving those
messages to people.
I don't want to make it
a business, such as what
Terry has done.
But for me, it's given me
amazing, amazing experiences
in my life, saved my
life a number of times,
and incredible
things have happened.
So I think it's wonderful.
I think mediums are wonderful,
and if they're capable,
and they're hearing, and they're
able to give people messages,
I think that's great.
One thing that I also
find that works in my life
is the concept of optimism
and thinking positively
and the law of attraction,
where if you're
thinking about something
that you really want to do,
then you maybe write it
down, and you think about it
before you go to bed,
and you see yourself
in that experience.
Like, let's say that I did have
the idea of creating a store,
or I did have the idea
of traveling to Italy.
So what I do with my
thoughts is I envision,
wholly, that experience
happening to me.
So if it was, let's say, a trip,
I spend time in my off hours--
say it's a trip to Italy--
looking at photographs
of the different
places that I would want to go.
And I read about it, and I
think strongly about being there
and what I would
do if I was there.
And so if I'm going on a trip,
and I visualize the pictures,
and I find out
about the location,
then I believe
that it'll happen.
And then, all of a
sudden, something
will happen where either an
amount of money comes to me,
or my husband says,
for our anniversary,
I got two tickets for Italy.
And something happens.
Well, that idea worked
really well when
I went through
the divorce that I
had to go through after my
near-death experience at age
31.
When I was 34, I divorced,
and for two years,
I envisioned the type of person
that I would want in my life,
because the previous person
had been so traumatic.
And so what I would
do is as I was going
through my life each day, in all
the different contacts that I
had with people, whether
it be at a grocery store
or at a restaurant or at my
work or friends and people
that I knew, I would look
for characteristics in them
that I felt were
positive and that I
would want in someone that I
would want attached in my life.
And so at night,
before I went to sleep,
after I'd put my
children to bed,
I would think about
those characteristics,
and I would write
them into a book.
So after two years, I had
206 things written down.
And I ended up meeting
my current husband
through my children, through
my older child, met his older
child, and they became friends.
And we ended up meeting,
and as I dated him,
I was able to look at
that spiral-bound notebook
that I had written
all those things into.
And if he was the person I
had been listing all along,
and I find that after
24 years of marriage,
my husband is that list.
And he was absolutely that list.
And so it, for me,
is really amazing,
and it tells me that
anyone can do that.
So if you're in a
bad situation, let's
say, with a marriage or
a workplace or anything
that you've got
going, envisioning
what you want it to be
instead of what it is,
I think there's power in that.
And I think that it can
change the outcome of what
you're looking at.
And I really believe our
minds have that capacity,
and they're doing
a lot of research
now along the lines
of that, and they're
finding that that's
exactly what the case is
is that you can actually--
there's a number of research
studies that have been
done, where they actually
were able to detect that
the person's mind was making
the change to the object that
was not even present where they
were at, so being able to
visualize things from afar
and being able to make
changes to things from afar
that not even close to where
you are is actually a capacity
that our minds have.
So I would encourage
people to use that
and to study about that
and use that in their life,
because, for me, it's
been a big difference.
It really has helped.
I very much think
there's an awakening
amongst the people that have
had near-death experiences,
and they actually are
doing research now
about people who haven't had a
near-death experience, but are
exposed to the stories,
whether reading them
or watching videos.
And they've actually
got a research study
that showed that
those people that
are hearing the stories
about near-death experiences
are diminishing their fear of
death and the degree of grief
that they feel when someone
passes away, because it gives
them the understanding that the
consciousness survives death.
So that is a huge benefit
for the near-death experience
stories to be out there
in the world, and I'm--
with me, it's
personally affected me,
but I'm really happy to know
that giving my story, when
I talk to different IANDS
groups across the United States
or I'm interviewed
for YouTube videos,
that this is a gift I
can give out to people
and help other people
understand that life continues
past the point of
death, that who you are
is not the physical life that
you're experiencing right now.
You are a spiritual being
having a physical experience,
not a physical being having
a spiritual experience.
And if we can get to that
point, where we can understand
that we're all spiritual
beings and that we're here
to learn and grow and to love
and to care for other people,
to be kind, to make the
world a better place,
then that's my message.
[MUSIC PLAYING]